README.md, before:

# rl-gpushared-shim

**External Renderer Shim for RuneLite**

---

## Overview

`rl-gpushared-shim` is a lightweight shared memory bridge that allows RuneLite to output scene and UI frame data to an external renderer, such as Unreal Engine.  
It enables:

- High-performance rendering off-process
- Double-buffered scene and UI frames
- Shared camera state and resolution awareness
- Input event forwarding from the external renderer back to RuneLite

The goal is to allow RuneLite to act as a backend scene/data provider while an external engine handles rendering, without modifying RuneLite's/OSRS's core rendering pipeline.

---

## Features

- **Shared memory-based communication** for low-latency frame transfer
- **Double-buffered frame data** for smooth rendering
- **Independent resolution tracking** for RuneLite and external renderer
- **Atomic frame ready/consumed flags** for safe producer/consumer coordination
- **Input queue** to forward key/mouse events from the external renderer to RuneLite

---

## Memory Layout

The shared memory region contains:

- **CameraState** — x, y, z, yaw, pitch, zoom
- **Frames** — double-buffered:
    - `FrameHeader` — ready/consumed flags, lengths, frame ID
    - `sceneData` — raw scene geometry
    - `uiData` — rendered UI frame
- **InputQueue** — atomic ring buffer for input events
- **Resolution** — independent `runeliteResolution` and `externalResolution`

---

## Building

1. Set `set(JAVA_HOME "C:/Program Files/Java/jdk-17")` in CMakeLists to your JDK installation.
2. Generate JNI headers:

```bash
javac -h native -d out java/net/runelite/client/plugins/gpushared/shim/SharedMemoryBridge.java
```

You should then be able to build the project.

Commit message:

(feat) support framebufferinfo
this adds resolution and consumption state into the SMR

flow:
RL will check if front or back is consumed, and ready if possible.
Unreal will check if front or back is ready, and consume if possible.

this ensures there are no race conditions.

framebuffer data will be packed here too eventually

README.md, after:

# rl-gpushared-shim

**External Renderer Shim for RuneLite**

---

## Overview

`rl-gpushared-shim` is a lightweight shared memory bridge for RuneLite that allows High-performance shared game state between Java and C++:

The goal is to allow RuneLite to act as a backend scene/data provider while an external engine handles rendering, without modifying RuneLite's/OSRS's core rendering pipeline.
  
I should note that I will not release the source code for the Unreal frontend.

---

## Features

- **Shared memory-based communication** for low-latency frame transfer
- **Double-buffered frame data** for smooth rendering

---

## Memory Layout

The shared memory region contains:

- **CameraState** — x, y, z, yaw, pitch, zoom
- **FrameBufferInfo** — double-buffered:
    - `FrontBufferInfo` — width, height, ready, consumed
    - `BackBufferInfo` — width, height, ready, consumed
---

## Building

1. Set `set(JAVA_HOME "C:/Program Files/Java/jdk-17")` in CMakeLists to your JDK installation.

You can then build, and load the dll into the SharedMemoryBridge (it must be on PATH)
